# Overview
In my opinion, Ironworks is a map best suited for attackers. It’s fast pace and plenty of ways to enter and leave the enemy base make it ideal for every attacker. I mean, you can cap in 8s using no guns at all. Duh. The position layout for the map is base defender, home red defender, enemy red attacker and high attacker. Home red defender shouldn’t really spend most of his time deffing alongside base def, instead he should also push attack as much as he can, because on Ironworks pressure is the key to winning. What happens in pickups tho, is that either home red player is almost exclusively doing red cycles every 25s and playing as second def until it’s his red pickup time, or he attacks frequent and picks up his reds when he remembers to.

## Defense
It is a map that generally requires a def to have good lg aim overall and good rl + rg to keep it comfortable. The def is responsible to get his ya and mega (35 sec timer here) and his armor shards without delaying them too much. He will also make sure that enemies coming from water side do not get out of water without getting damage, make sure that he is on top of flag when there is pressure in his base so enemy fc cannot do a fast exit.

While rotating from mega / ya pickups a def is responsible to rail mid from high entrance (gl spawn) as much as possible while quickly moving back to get his base items / check for anyone incoming without his knowledge.

Due to the spawn locations of lg and rg the def has to rely on his home ra guy to get supplied for weapons. Especially having no lg is a serious problem so much depends on his home ra doing his job. If done right, after fending off an attack the def can quickly pick up rg by going gl side. The ammo boxes for rg and lg in base are usually enough to keep up the movement rotation.

This map allows for enemy fc’s to exit base very fast with little chance to catch up to them from flag area, neither does it give a chance for a clean shot from behind to take him down before it’s too late (flag reaching enemy base side), therefore it is crucial to damage any incoming enemy sufficiently so that they cannot do the rj exits from flag. Usually proper teams will help def out when there is a stacked or pu guy incoming.

The def can be crucial here if he can help mid a lot, and will usually decide if his team caps by helping out from gl entrance during his team’s flag run.

If the def receives info about enemies coming from the lg teleporter he will start spamming grenades into the water to soften anyone coming from ra and finishes them off with lg / rl. It is also possible to utilize gl to spam from high to low sg entrance. One last important spam option is to spam grenades from the gl spawn itself on top of mid pu. By bouncing it on the ground it is possible to fill the mid pu spawn with grenades, making it deadly to be there for any enemy.

Positional duties are to be on top of the flag area while enemy attackers are coming. The only exception to this is when the def’s team has the flag and he opts to help mid despite the possibility of incoming enemies.

## Enemy red
Enemy item timings:
```
1st enemy red ~10s
1st enemy medkit ~07s
```

Run straight to jump pad off the initial spawn, go bridge and drop to enemy lg. Unless you get blocked by your teammates, you should be right on time to at least deny the shaft. Next step is kinda obvious, go through the portal, take re, deal damage on enemy’s red player and if you can do damage to enemy base def but don’t die with lg. By now you should have an accurate time on enemy red and approximate time on his medkit. The medkit time depends on if the red guy skipped it to go directly to red (via rocket jump or just by deciding to not stop on the ledge to pick it up), so it might be delayed. If he did take the medkit on his way to first red, you should be close enough at that point to hear the pickup. If you didn’t hear the pickup, on the next attack you make you should run to medkit (but not from lg) to see if it’s taken (it probably is), so you can narrow down the timespan on when the kit spawns.

As one of the attackers, you’re also required to stick around for power up. You shouldn’t worry about losing the red timing because the enemy’s home red player will be there too. If you win the mid and take the power up, you will probably have a clean access to his next red as well. If it happens that you’re the guy that picked up regen, you should bring it back to your home red player and drop it, because he probably knows when his red and medkit spawn, and might even be stacked to start with.

When you’re lost on red timing, you can always correct it in a few ways, the worst one definitely being camping in the red box, waiting for it to spawn. other than losing a lot of time (if you’re off time), it probably won’t get you the red pick up as well. If enemy’s red player kills you there, at least try to delay the respawn in hopes you get to see when the red is picked up. A better way on correcting your timing would be seeing when the red player goes in through teleport and assuming that he picked it up at that time (give or take a few seconds).

Don’t always attack from the same route (sewer). If you die soon after the red pickup, there’s really no reason for you to be there again until it’s time for a new red spawn. Basically, when there’s no red in play, attack from any free route (consult your team overlay to tell you where your teammates are attacking from). Also, cool stuff to do when you see the enemy’s red player go in through the portal is to camp it until you see him leave for his base. What you should do is quickly go in and do a ton of damage, you might even kill him. Even if you don’t kill him, you did enough to stop him from being stacked in his next attack.

## Home red & high attack
On initial spawn go left, towards the rocket launcher, up the jump pad, pick the medkit (or not, depends if you think you might be late for red), and proceed to take the shaft, red and go to your base. Now, on this initial spawn it’s quite possible that you get blocked by your teammates and turn up late for the red. There’s two ways to try and cut corners. I think the best one is to pick up the rocket launcher and rocket jump off the sewer ledge to red armor. It might not get you the shaft or the medkit, but you’ll have red secured and chances are high that enemy coming to your red will most likely just pick the lg, ignore medkit and go straight for sewer which secures 2 out of the 3 items you’re supposed to get which is not bad and could be worse (like your enemy shafting you down, proceeding to take medkit and then taking the red as well). When you do get the lg, first thing you should do is drop it to your defender. Aside from keeping the red safe, it is probably the most important thing for a home red player to do.

Once you have all the items secured, you have some 20 seconds of free time. Don’t use that free time to camp in the base. Push with rest of your attackers, the best way to fend off enemies going to your red is by having their base constantly pressured. That way their home red player can’t focus on his red as well, and it opens up a time window when your enemy red player can dominate (or at least should dominate). When you’re getting low on hp or when you notice that your red time is up soon, fall back and do your cycle thing. I’d recommend you getting in your red box a few seconds before the actual spawn, there’s always a chance someone sneaked in so you can kill them before the red spawns.

As far as power ups go, the home red player is the one most likely to get fed with regens, seeing how he’s the only one certain to get some items (medkit + red). So once you get the regen, either fall back for item pickup, or if you timed your red so it spawns some seconds before the regen then you should have decent stack on yourself to push immediately. Whatever you do is fine, unless you die and don’t get the regen.

To finish it off with attackers, high attacker should run directly for the railgun off the spawn, fire a few shots to slow down the enemy attackers and drop the railgun back to the base def. Once that’s done, high attack isn’t a position where you pick up the rail and camp. You’re encouraged to sync with your enemy red player as often as you can and deal damage and put pressure on enemy base. Only item you should try to time as a high attacker is enemy megahealth.
