# Overview
Japanese Castles, known among the community as wcp1/cp1/p1, is probably the most balanced out map in Quake Live in terms of even gameplay. It is probably the only map even the significantly weaker teams can put up a good fight.

## Defense
Japan is usually straightforward to def, yet hard to master. The main priority and focus of def is to hold the flag area (nicknamed “box” because of it’s shape) because of the shards / ya located there. It’s crucial to be there at nearly all times to be able to tell if flag is leaving high or low in case the enemy gets the flag.

The usual tactic is to have 2 box defs. They will share the shards / ya in the base and one of them (usually the one with lower stack) will move to home pu before it spawns and/or go to mid in case his team has grabbed the enemy flag. The def who went home pu must also pick up the power up in case none of the attackers show up and use it for attack while doing his best not to die and give the pu to enemy.

It is possible to play 1 box def and 1 high def. This is supposed to be more heavy attack oriented with heavy railing from the high defender at high entrance door, he will also be able to join attack faster from there. The risk of this strategy is that the high def has to know when to fall back pretty much before there is trouble in box. In case he does not make it in time it is possible that the enemy fc will make an easy exit. The safer strategy is always 2 box. The more risky, but more aggressive, 1 box 1 high strategy requires a high def with good rail and very good map awareness along with fast movement to be successful.

Japan is the most rewarding map for a def who likes to spam a lot. Both high and low entrances are highly susceptible to grenade and rocket spam. Grenades are usually underused by defs, but especially here they are amazing if the enemy attackers try to overwhelm the def by rushing. Always try to spam grenades or rockets when you receive info from your team about incoming enemies. As a box def, you will usually not hear the enemy before he drops down to shotgun or bottom stairs. With a little luck your spam will do at least some splash damage, or if you are really lucky even a direct hit to an enemy who is dropping down low from sg spawn or rushing from high stairs. I even recommend spamming random rockets up to high entrance windows just in case you get lucky against someone using high jump pad to go in fast. In short, try to soften all incoming people with spam and then switch to rg to get a hit in, if they survive all this then switch back to rl / sg to finish them off in box.

If def dies it is usually crucial that he must not fight or even spend time taking weapons and must move back to base as quickly as possible. A common misconception is that when a def spawns enemy garden that it is ok if he joins the attack. This usually does not benefit the attack much and will also mean 2nd def is alone longer than he should have been.
